Add ACME docs and link to it from README and INSTALL (#4570)
matrix-org/synapse: docs/ACME.md

# ACME

> Synapse v1.0 requires that federation TLS certificates are verifiable by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Synapse v1.0 will requirs that federation TLS certificates are verifiable by a
```

trusted root CA. If you do not already have a valid certificate for your domain, the easiest

> way to get one is with Synapse's new ACME support, which will use the ACME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
way to get one is with Synapse's ACME support (new as of Synapse 0.99), which will use the ACME
```

generated config by running the `generate-config` executable. For example::

  ~/synapse/env3/bin/generate-config

You will need to provide Let's Encrypt (or another ACME provider) access to
your Synapse ACME challenge responder on port 80, at the domain of your
homeserver. This requires you to either change the port of the ACME listener
provided by Synapse to a high port and reverse proxy to it, or use a tool
like `authbind` to allow Synapse to listen on port 80 without root access.
(Do not run Synapse with root permissions!) Detailed instructions are
available under "ACME setup" below.

If you are already using self-signed certificates, you will need to back up
or delete them (files `example.com.tls.crt` and `example.com.tls.key` in
Synapse's root directory), Synapse's ACME implementation will not overwrite
them.

You may wish to use alternate methods such as Certbot to obtain a certificate
from Let's Encrypt, depending on your server configuration. Of course, if you
already have a valid certificate for your homeserver's domain, that can be
placed in Synapse's config directory without the need for any ACME setup.

## ACME setup

> Synapse v1.0 will require valid TLS certificates for communication between servers

Reviewer: we need to combine this with the introduction - it basically says the same thing.

provision certificates as needed.

For nginx users, add the following line to your existing `server` block:

```
location /.well-known/acme-challenge {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:8009/;
}
```

For Apache, add the following to your existing webserver config::

```
ProxyPass /.well-known/acme-challenge http://localhost:8009/.well-known/acme-challenge
```

Make sure to restart/reload your webserver after making changes.

### Authbind

`authbind` allows a program which does not run as root to bind to
low-numbered ports in a controlled way. The setup is simpler, but requires a
webserver not to already be running on port 80. **This includes every time
Synapse renews a certificate**, which may be cumbersome if you usually run a
web server on port 80. Nevertheless, if you're sure port 80 is not being used
for any other purpose then all that is necessary is the following:

Install `authbind`. For example, on Debian/Ubuntu:

```
sudo apt-get install authbind
```

Allow `authbind` to bind port 80:

```
sudo touch /etc/authbind/byport/80
sudo chmod 777 /etc/authbind/byport/80
```

When Synapse is started, use the following syntax::

```
authbind --deep <synapse start command>
```

> Finally, once Synapse is able to listen on port 80 for ACME challenge

Reviewer: need to do this for reverse-proxy mode too

Author: Yeah, it was meant as an ending to both. I'll add another heading.
